---
draft: true
title: 2024 retrospective // top lists // whatever
date: 2025-01-01
---

every now and then i'll be halfway through one of these and go "damn, this blog feels like a little bit of a shrine to consumerism" (or maybe more consoomerism). talking about media is kind of odd because in person, if i havent experienced what something is but my friends think i should check it out myself, i just want to know 1. is it good and 2. are there any content warnings for it (is it scary or gorey or does it cover some really heavy topics). i'll then check it out; if i like it i'll finish it, if i don't i will generally give up on it, unless its a movie. the really fun media analysis part then comes when you sit down for a cup of tea or wine or something and talk about it with your friend and other people who have seen it. the actual conversation part of it i think is where the value lies (as well as the piece of media itself, or course). talking about stuff in this kind of non-conversational manner is super different to that and honestly just feels self indulgent sometimes, which i suppose it is. it is frankly really fun to just put my thoughts down and construct a page that i think looks cool to read through and reflects my personality in a strange way. i should also give myself a break because theres really only so many ways to talk while blogging. i like general journalling stuff but i do strive to keep myself pretty anonymous here, and besides that i think sharing art and projects are some of the only other big ways to get yourself out there. i could put up musings on world events or financial advice but i dont want to do that, and i also think that kind of falls under the other categories.

i'm not really going anywhere with this i suppose! maybe im just trying to work through how i kind of feel like a dork blogging like this. in any case, i wanted to make a big post of some of the stuff i really liked this year. i feel like the spotify wrapped is kind of soulless and also not particularly helpful because i barely use spotify anymore, and then i was like huh, i guess i should talk about everything else as well

⚠warning!! i wrote everything from here on a bit drunk so make sure a sober person edits it⚠

### top 5 albums
#### sidney gish
it's been a weird year for me! and this has very quickly become one of my go-to albums for when i'm feeling a bit shit. the sound of the album is warm and twee but the lyrics sometimes fall into something a bit more depressed and fatalistic - i don't subscribe the the move of listening to sad music when you're feeling sad, but listening to happy music with melancholic lyrics does make me feel a bit of camaraderie (or empathy, or something of that nature)
#### magdalena bay
i think my review of this album back in september sums up my main feelings about it. even after listening to it another ten or so times i still get that "oh man, i love this track" feeling with _every_ song on the album and it (as well as that one kesha single) have been pretty instrumental to turning me around to pop music, something im super excited to check out further in 2025
#### wordclock

### games
#### disco elysium
i finished it! finally! this game is rightfully considered an absolute classic by a lot of people, but its (initial) slow pacing and lack of explicit direction stopped me from getting through it the first time. that is, however, my only real complaint with the game. it's an extremely interesting group of characters interacting in an extremely interesting world. the setting slowly opens up as you play - it initially looks really familiar, but more layers appear the deeper you look - it's an echo of our industrial revolution, but with some changes made to suit the more physical differences to the world. i liked the strange and esoteric computing systems they use and the vehicles that seem to sit squarely between a ford model t and a car more at home in cyberpunk 2077. every element of the game has been very intentionally thought out to integrate with the overall experience, and its pretty happily one of the best things ive played in recent memory
#### mutazione
i stumbled onto mutazione by complete accident some time last year and did the exact same thing as i did with disco elysium: downloaded and played a pirated copy for a couple of hours, forgot it existed because it wasn't in my steam library, reinstalled windows and lost the save, remembered it, bought it on steam, and then powered through in the space of a week. i dont think disco elysium and mutazione would be a fair fight in terms of writing and story structure, but mutazione still succeeded at sucking me into the lives of a lovely little community of interesting little characters with interpersonal complexity and mysterious pasts. 

you do unfortunately spend a lot of time walking back and forth in fairly linear paths from the kind of town hub, which isnt amazingly engaging, and each segment day tends to be a bit of a checklist of checking in on each character and seeing how theyre going, but that's also not necessarily the required experience, and i honestly thought that missing some of the context might make the whole thing a bit more absorbing
#### alba
what a shock! i'd seen this one recommended a couple of times before but thought the whole thing looked a little bit too twee and tumblr to be actually enjoyable (more about my general feelings on media that can be described as "twee" and "tumblr" as someone who is both very twee and very tumblr in the near future). to my surprise, the story part of the game didnt feel like it was beating you over the head with a highschooler's conservation essay, and the game part of the game took an extremely simple exploration template and spiced it up with a birdwatching mechanic to carry you when the curiosity for whats around the corner isn't quite enough. the story is short and simple but totally works with the positive vibe the game was going with, and the nod / shake head mechanic is perhaps one of my favourites of the year.
#### jusant
i originally jumped on this because the climbing mechanic looked interesting, and it mostly is, but what kept me around was the drip feed of mysterious and intriguing worldbuilding tidbits. for those unaware, jusant is about ascending a giant tower that used to be home to a weird climbing-based society. the environmental storytelling is lovely as you begin to piece together how they made their lives worked and their integration with the strange flora and fauna of the tower. the gameplay is also really cool! it strikes a good balance between interesting minute-by-minute feel without becoming a climbing simulation (although i am pretty interested in [cairn](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3170150/Cairn_Demo/), which leans way more in the simulation direction). the final result is a comfortable puzzle, broken up with gorgeous vistas and sifting through an extremely intersting world. i super enjoyed my time with it!
#### the big catch tacklebox

### movies
#### humanist vampire
#### i saw the tv glow
#### the wild robot
#### arrietty
#### the sweet east
#### witness for the prosecution

### books
#### activation degradation
#### the stars yet unclaimed

### retrospective
