---
title: june 2025 blog
draft: true
---

{% blogImage '/_assets/img/2025_07_01/logbackon.webp', 360 %}

### three albums / more mp3 player blathering
this has been the first month with some decent musical discovery in a little while, which makes no sense because i've been unbelievably busy. it was definitely encouraged by the arrival of a new [hiby m300](/blog/2024-12-01/#hiby-m300). i lost my last one in japan and replaced it with a sony walkman nw-a105 - when i first got it i was excited to have something fairly cheap (~120 aud secondhand), slightly smaller, with a nominally sleeker design and ever so slightly classier android stock setup. it was also the only thing i had during my holiday because i lost my m300, as mentioned previously. it unfortunately experienced a crack in its 3.5mm jack (somehow?) meaning that the plug would lean away from the pins and cause you to lose audio in one ear. nw-a105s are fairly easy to open up and the 3.5mm port is thankfully not soldered to the circuitboard, which would make it an easy replacement if the part was actually something you can buy, which it appears not to be. i gave in and coughed up the 230 aud for a new m300 direct from hiby's store on aliexpress, and i can now give a very direct A/B comparison of the two devices. 

\<BALATRO PHOTO HERE\>

the thing that hit me immediately is the battery life. the nw-a105's battery is impressively small and its android 10 operating system chews through power even when the device is completely idle, in airplane mode, with all non-essential services forcefully removed from the system. we're talking about 15% of the battery every hour, with the device doing absolutely nothing. the stock workaround is to have the walkman turn itself off if it's been idle for an hour, which is cute, but the device takes more than a minute to start up again and even longer for all of its services to open. comparatively, the hiby sat in my pocket with wireless communications turned on for three hours with nothing playing and lost 0% of its battery capacity. easy win

the hiby is slightly larger, which is technically a matter of taste but practically makes it actually useable, it comes with android 13 which means i can make podcast apps save to the sd card, and it is actually kind of crap free, software wise!
// TODO talk about software setup

anyway, apologies for the ramble. here's my lastfm report, my playlist (in text form) and some albums that i thought were cool

[lastfm report](https://www.last.fm/user/uuupah/library/albums?from=2025-06-10&to=2025-06-30)

<details>
  <summary>
    playlist
  </summary>

  - musik genom fyra sekler by jan johansson
  - funeral folk by maria w horn and sara parkman
  - huvva! - svensk folkmusik på beat by merit hemmingson
  - hedningarna by hedningarna
  - sola by sola
  - bayside by obskür
  - luz negra by richard galliano
  - [percepticide: the death of reality by pixel grip](https://pixelgrip.bandcamp.com/album/percepticide-the-death-of-reality)
  - not tight by domi & jd beck
  - [the new sound by geordie greep](https://geordiegreep.bandcamp.com/album/the-new-sound)
  - [jimmy & wes: the dynamic duo by wes montgomery and jimmy smith](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n1qLaP0tWcMth)
  - [the game by mos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=OLAK5uy_nxfgY5LqVEd88s9cq4UQoHO0QtX2oq934)
  - [stomach book's discography](https://stomachbook.bandcamp.com/)
  - [fem&m's discography](https://femnm.bandcamp.com/)
  - [slow attack ensemble's discography](https://slowattackensemble.bandcamp.com/music)
  - [endlessness by nala sinephro](https://nalasinephro.bandcamp.com/album/endlessness)
  
</details>

{% blogImage '/_assets/img/2025_07_01/playlist.webp' %}

#### luz negra by richard galliano

#### addherall by fem&m

#### percepticide by pixel grip


### other music thoughts
i grabbed a boatload of music this month including a good variety of jazzy and funky stuff, the discographies of slow attack ensemble, fem&m and stomach book, and some swedish folk music. i also finally got around to the new sound by geordie greep, which really had me torn; one of the core parts of the albums is the characters it builds for its lyrics. the song holy, holy is a great example of this where it depicts a depraved and insecure man bragging about being a womaniser in a way that is altogether uncomfortable. it's a really hard experience to sit through, which is a shame, because the instrumental elements are incredible, as is greep's vocal ability. it's also kind of the point, but that doesn't mean i want to listen to it any more

### degoogling

- degoogling
  - deepl translate
  - immich
    - single source of truth conceptx
- books on my to-read pile
- coffee

- glorious o2 issues with new drivers
  - o2 in general (occasional dropouts)
https://larssnedker.com/the-roads-of-night-city

### cooking

{% blogImage '/_assets/img/2025_07_01/nuggets.webp', 360 %}

laxpudding (instagram recipe https://www.instagram.com/p/DCE3Y40MTCZ/)
 - i get my mums obsession with quiche now

linux ricing fomo
librewolf - setup and extensions

champagne.pages.dev

praxis keyboard
nekoweb?

### müjin
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/91vAsyyRaag?" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

i've been watching a lot of this dude this month - he's a great entertainer, and also does a huge variety of interesting things. i happily stood and watched in silence as he spent days pouring concrete in his basement, sucked wasps out of his house and scraped paint off his old fireplace. his new stuff is awesome but i picked this one because it's his most eyecatching thumbnail and most watched video - how could it not be with that thumbnail

### gender
{% blogImage '/_assets/img/2025_07_01/chicken.webp', 360 %} 

i remember when i was early in on tumblr and beginning to learn about transgender identity and genderfluidity and not really _getting_ it. it was the mid 2010s and the modern concepts of transgender people were only just beginning to hit the "mainstream" - toilet-pearls-clutching was in its infancy, and jk rowling hadn't shown all of her cards yet. around this time i was introduced to the concept of "ftf" and "mtm" trans people, a concept that seemed insane back then, but has seemed more and more reasonable as i've continued figuring out my own gender and being surrounded by other lovely genderqueer people

this moment came back to me during the first session with my new electrolysis tech - when i described how i wanted a full removal of my facial hair she asked if i was "changing my gender" and the gulf between how i used to think about being transgender and how i think now became incredibly clear. i think to the uninitiated it seems like someone has been one gender for all of their life and they suddenly realised that they want to try something else, like the other option seems like a better one. for me, as my internal identity began to crystalise, it also became clear that my external identity didn't match. it wasn't like i became non-binary per se, it was more that i realised the feelings i'd had on the inside the whole time had a name, and once i'd figured that i wanted the rest of my life to match (i hope that makes sense lol)

i also went to an artists talk by a really cool enby about their gender-focused exhibition - it was awesome, for reference - but it made me think about how a lot of visual representations of genderqueer-ness seem to focus on fluffy shapes and pastel rainbow forms. i'm suddenly kind of interested in artistic gender expression that is somewhat the opposite - can i show my feelings with a drawing that's dark and spikey and not at all ethereal? i think i could do some super cool human forms with this idea, but also something more somber - perhaps like someone moving through a dark misty mire a-la middle earth?

- gender and suits?
