---
draft: true
title: may 2026
---

music
vanishing twin
portrait with firewood djrum
brendan eder ensemble therapy

everything's settled down a little. 
- i've been having all kinds of thoughts of things i want to talk about on my blog and not actually writing any of them down. 
- i also havent been doing much art and its starting to piss me off that i havent been motivated
- my thoughts have been pretty consistently settled on bicycles and linux and very little else. 
- linux
    - asahi linux is fun to mess with
        - mbp big display
        - how do mac users do without navigation buttons
        - touchbar works even better on linux
        - iosevka font
    - setting up linux from complete scratch is awesome
        - hibernation
    - created more work and i felt like i spent a lot of time faffing about
        - most importantly, the freedom to do anything also means you hear about interesting things and end up wasting loads of time lol
    - firefox theme
        - observation: the ui in a browser is also just html and css because of course it is, the browser is a program that is goot at rendering html and css
        - kind of quaint how a web browser is a too that is good at viewing the internet but is also a development tool inherently
## international news
{% blogImage "/_assets/img/blog_2026/cobbed.webp" %}  
this is going to be the least groundbreaking, least cutting edge commentary, but holy shit. the war and indescriminate bombing is horrific and i absolutely dont want to minimise it, but the absolute embarassment that trump and his lackies are to themselves is incredible. every morning i wake up and hear about some truth social post trying to convince us that every move is actually does make sense, despite its clear lack of forethought, or that every move by another country is just proof that theyre winning, even when it's clear that theyre not. don't get me wrong, i have no love for the vast, vast majority of politicians, but it's both more uncomfortable and more worrying when it's obvious that these particular ones are A. entirely driven by even more fragile egos than usual and B. the kinds of kids who would lie in the schoolyard about their uncle working for nintendo.

i started writing out a sentence commending a lot of politicians for magically growing a spine and refusing to take part in the war themselves, but that's hardly a big surprise given the optics of the whole thing. it hasnt stopped most countries from hosting american military sites and sharing intelligence, like we continue to be happy to do. thanks guys. big ups to spain though for actually putting their foot down and refusing access to air bases

on the petrol point, i'm thankfully blessed to live close enough to everything in my city to comfortably take public transport most places, and it's been a great opportunity to knuckle down on cycling more. i've been surprised by how far i can get at the moment with pretty minimal impact to my energy for the rest of the day! it doesn't take long, you've just gotta start taking it a little more seriously

## bikes
i've been trying to get a little more into bike media, but i've found it difficult to find stuff that fits my specific area of interest. a lot of youtubers are either mountain / gravel bikers, hardcore carbon road cyclists or fixie riders. i watched an absolutely terrifying video of a fixie bombing down a san francisco hill so fast that his chain detached, meaning that he now had absolute zero way to brake. no thanks. the commuter-spec-who-still-wants-something-that-looks-kind-of-sleek-and-interesting demographic seems to be much smaller. it exists, but it's also easy for them to transition to one of the aforementioned hyper-concentrated styles and suddenly i'm far less interested
- bikes
    - i want to make a bike from a cool colourful old frame with new parts
    - bullhorn handles
    - found myself analysing bikes in games
    - bike media is so interesting but largely not for me, i see big silly expensive Cyclists, fixie people and mountain bikers. much less interest in cool old bikes that we've done up to be interesting, a lot more flexing
    - cycling in general continues to be awesome. getting more interest in repairs, maintenance and modification
        - hope its not becoming another reddit hobby

- i'm carrying a lot of demons from a childhood of feeling like i didnt quite fit in
    - this is well documented on this site
    - i've recently spent more time with the tighter crowd and had a lot of really cosy moments
    - i'm trying to get back into running things - if you want to have a movie night or a bike ride then the best way is to make it happen yourself
    - despite all the positives it's hard to completely kick the grass is greener feelign when you see people you know having a good time on social media
- memory and vocab have been bad recently, sense of smell fucked, sore back. feel ancient
- i think i'm spending a lot of mental energy on protecting myself from further harm that in and of itself is making me more stressed out
- i've been thinking about this blogger i found who wrote this detailed thing about how they had a crush on their doctor and they described the experience of visiting them with such beautiful and evocative tems
- games
    - patriciantv skyrim reviews https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHP02JEC5H0&t=19294s
    - vintage story with pals
    - splatoon raiders
    - metaphor refantazio