---
title: "panicposting"
date: 2026-01-11
---

{% blogImage "/_assets/img/2026_02_01/america.jpg", 350 %}
could we _please_ live in less interesting times. i'm actually kind of terrified about all the news coming out of the usa right now. a civilian gets shot by the country's own secret police. troops bomb a sovereign nation and kidnap their president before putting him to trial for breach of american law. donald trump will not shut up about invading greenland. what's the response from every other country on the planet? crickets. what is the point of representative democracy if people who represent us prioritise trade agreements and their own investments over the good of our country and the human race. the concept of world war 3 gets bandied about all the time but if the usa invades greenland that could really be it. either australia gets looped into an insane war, neither side of which being optimal, or worse, nothing happens, and the reality of international peace gets laid bare and suddenly everyone else has free reign to do whatever they want. taiwan and tibet are toast. usa's puppet war with russia probably continues indefinitely, or even gets worse. what happens if people my age get drafted, australia does the entirely predictable thing and beds down with the usa and suddenly i'm being told to shoot someone because a dementia riddled pedo needs distraction from the proof of his atrocities being made public. i _hope_ i'm wrong about this, i _hope_. but if i'm right i really won't be surprised

id actually been thinking a lot about charlie kirk recently and had been writing light notes on the transgender """"debate"""" in the usa and austalia and worldwide but it feels trite right now. there are constant issues in my local community but it becomes harder and harder to focus on them with this hanging over you. my local bike kitchen needs a new location! they're wonderful people doing amazing good for my city and my community and it might be completely meaningless because this pedophile has realised that international law isn't really a real thing. 

my only solace is that you can _see_ this dude actively physically and mentally deteriorating. in his first term there was a lot of chatter about whether he would kick the bucket, and the response to that was that it wouldnt matter because his vp is just as bad. but i really dont think that jd vance has the ability to wrangle the cult of personality if trump dies or has to head off to a nursing home. the usa has always been a violent and imperialistic country and that never really stopped, but they have been (largely) run by people who didnt want to roll the dice on starting insane intercontinental wars for the chance of some oil at the risk of being summarily blacklisted by all their allies. we can _hope_

anyway im doing this as a little solo post because i dont want to put this up and have the next header be a deep dive into fermata on the pythos and how to butcher a whole chicken
