---
title: 'may 2025 blog'
draft: true
---

i'm kind of uniquely placed financially speaking; i work as a programmer, but most of my friends are artists, teachers or working in healthcare (not as doctors). i prioritise my personal life over my professional one, which is bound to bite me in the ass in the long term, but means that i have a comfortable enough life in the short term. the summary of all this is i get paid more than most of my friends and less than most of my peers. i top off this fun combo with living in australia where houses are considered an investment opportunity instead of a human necessity, and where our distance from the usa and small population means that things are Just More Expensive here. as an upshot owning a house one day is tantalisingly close but practically out of reach. i set out a budget plan this year that would have maybe put me in the running, with the condition that my car and phone kept trucking along long enough that they dont pose a financial pressure. anyway, my car's required a month of saving's worth of repairs, and my phone is getting distressingly fritzy. it stopped charging completely partly through may and i was terrified that i would have to replace it, but a complete drain and charge via wireless fixed it. for some reason. anyway it has slightly felt like the world is against me this may, but things are also coming back to equilibrium. the car acting up led to me buying a bicycle, which is awesome, and the phone acting up has cemented my rejection of it as a multitool. i'm keep my walkman, camera, notebooks and physical cards on me like a perfect little trend-following minimalist, but it's nice to know that i wasnt acting like a prepper for an apocalypse that will never come

i continue to walk the tightrope of doing too little and doing too much. my art output (?? gross) isn't where i'd like it to be, i've got a bunch of fun stuff i want to write about here, a bunch of books i want to read, exercise and training i'd like to do, and i've fallen back on hosting events after moving further from the centre of town. all the while, my weekly schedule looks like this:

{% blogImage "/_assets/img/blog_2025/calendar.png" %}

#### the very bad not good month

this month was a bit of a rollercoaster. i got hit with a massive case of the winter sads which ruined some otherwise lovely experiences. i might have to be realistic and rebrand myself from being a winter lover. this weird unexplained numbness was supplemented by a series of events in my personal and work life where i felt like i was criticised without due cause - the work one was particularly hair raising because the thought of getting fired snuck into my brain, which is never fun. that one has at least been resolved, but in the moment it really brought back a huge rush of self doubt and insecurity. for a couple of days i was reading into every little thing too hard; thinking that people were sick of me because they took a bit longer to respond to messages, that kind of nonsense. 

the cherry on top was that i was watching [jeffiot's excellent disco elysium video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Phns6c7j_mM) and was really taken by the way he described his relationship with his partner. i've wondered if i've been incapable of loving someone else a lot in the past <TODO>

- sometimes things just feel a bit grey?
- had a day where things were lovely, id been having a great time with my partner and had hung out with their friends and sister and some of my friends but for some reason i just felt a bit limp?
- i think i was maybe just socialed out, and maybe its early onset seasonal affective disorder
- hmm no im just getting weird pangs of grey at the moment
  - probably winter
- also thinking about how idk if i really know love lol
  - thinking about the jeffiot disco elysium video and my ex ofc

- got chewed the fuck out at work!
  - scary!
  - the air of almost infantilisation

#### echo transformations - michel banabila

#### phosgore - domination

### green-house - music for living spaces
- smacked a lot of night in the woods?

- people crying mama in films

#### ghormeh sabzi
- dish i learned from my persian friend's mum (who also sourced the limes)
- honestly quite simple and is always less spiced than i remember
- almost all the flavouring comes from the meat, lime and the herbs
- its quite filling as a result of it being beef, braising liquid and beans
- excellent paired with persian rice
